aisdev/Release.txt
									RELEASE NOTES
This document explains the steps to release a new version of AIS.  These steps are only
carried out by the AIS administrator when a new ais is built.  All others should just check
out ais from the StarTeam _ais project.

First a new ais folder is created on the administrator's computer, a new ais is built, and
then the files in this folder are checked in to StarTeam.  The following explains how to
create a new ais folder from scratch.

Release build. The executables in the ais folder are updated by compiling the release version
 of the aisdev project. In particular, the following files are updated:
	ais.exe aised.exe, egm.dll, ride.exe, testaisclient/testaisclient.exe webide.exe, xml.dll,
	xml/xml.c, xml/xml.h

Configuration Parameters. Any time that configuration parameters are modified, the
parameters and associated documentation should be updated as noted in aisdev/aisinstall.ini.
See also the description of all the parameters in parameters.txt. These updates are
transferred to the ais folder described next.

Transfer from aisdev.  The DLLs, libraries, HTML, and other supporting files are updated by the
script aisdev/ReleaseCopy.bat.  Use ReleaseCopy.bat on a clean ais folder in order to avoid
leaving stale files around.  When running StarTeam, some of the
copied files will appear in StarTeam as modified requiring a FileUpdate to the files in
the _ais project on the StarTeam Server to find the files that really were modified.
Do the following tasks prior to doing the transfer.
 1. Create a new docs/installation/realeasenotesXXXXX.doc. Edit installation docs.
 2. Note changes in aisdev/installation/installnotes.txt.
 3. Update configuration parameters as noted above.

Bin. To update, check out the current version from ais. Bin holds utilities generated from
a variety of sources. It is updated from time-to-time by several developers.

Demo. To update, check out the current version from ais. Ted Williams updates this folder
from time-to-time.  Check with him to make sure that the current version works with the
latest release.

Docs. Files are transferred from aisdev. Check with the documentation department to make
sure that the documentation reflects changes made in the current release.  The procedure
for updating the online documentation can be found in (to be determined...).

Docs/installation. Docs/installation is maintained by the AIS administrator and updated prior
to each release.  In particular, create a new releasenotesXXXX.doc describing the bug fixes
and enhancements since the last release in the aisdev project prior to the transfer.  Any
changes to the installation process should be noted in
aisdev/docs/installation/installnotes.txt.  Any changes in the configuration parameters
since the last release should be noted in aisdev/docs/installation/configurationNotes.txt.
Add any suggestions, tips, or requirements regarding the customization of the ini files to
configurationnotes.txt

FlashClient. To update, check out the current version from ais. Ted Williams updates this
folder from time-to-time.  Check with him to make sure that the current version works with
the latest release.

Include. Files and images are transferred from aisdev.

Libraries.  Files are transferred from aisdev. After the installation, the user will have
to run libupdate to create the db files for each library.

Logs.  An empty directory named log must be included in the release.  A dummy file may have
to be included in each folder to make sure that the installation package includes any
empty directories.

Test. Files are transferred from aisdev.  These files are updated from time-to-time by
developers.

TestAis. Files are transferred from aisdev.

TestAisClient. Files are transferred from aisdev.

Usr. Files are transferred from aisdev.

Wwwroot. Files are transferred from aisdev.

Xml. Files are transferred from aisdev.  They are also updated by a release build of the
Xml project in Visual Studio.

Validation.  After all the above updates have been performed, notify the QA department for
validation of the current release prior to its distribution.

Check In.  Check in all of the changes into aisdev.  Check out selected folders as noted
above.  Remove stale files marked as missing from other folders. Force a check-in of
out-of-date and merged files (check differences to see that no updates are being lost).

Summary.  The methods for updating each folder in ais are:
ais			Release build and transferred from aisdev.
bin			Check out from ais.
demo		Check out from ais
docs		Transferred from aisdev
flashclient	Check out from ais.
include		Transferred from aisdev
libraries	Transferred from aisdev.
logs		Empty folder created when files transferred from aisdev
test		Transferred from aisdev.
testais		Transferred from aisdev
testaisclient Transferred from aisdev
usr			Transferred from aisdev
wwwroot		Transferred from aisdev
xml			Transferred from aisdev.

end
