ais/docs/installation/InstallNotes.txt

                            AIS INSTALLATION PROCEDURE
Install. To install AIS carry out the following steps:
 1.	Checkout. Check out the latest version of _ais from StarTeam or ???.  The date/time
setting on your computer must be set to the current time to make sure that you get the
latest changes from StarTeam.  Also, make sure that all files are marked as "current".
See StarTeam.txt in this folder for more details on using StarTeam.

 2.	Installation Directory.  The installation directory is the top-level directory where
the ais project resides on your computer. This directory is referred to as AISDIR in this
discussion.  For example, if the _ais project is placed in the ais folder in the C drive
of your local computer, then AISDIR=C:\ais.

 3.	File Types.
In order to start AIS by double-clicking on any astartup.sl, it is necessary to
associate the .sl extension with webide.exe as follows:
	  *	From the Control Panel, select Folder Options.
	  *	Select the File Types tab and select New.  Set the extension to SL.
	  * Under "Details for SL extension", select Advanced.
	  * To change the Icon, navigate to ais/include/images/abase.bmp
	  *	Under Actions, select New and then enter the name Open.
	  *	Select Browse and then navigate to webide.exe in the ais installation folder,
		AISDIR.

 4.	Test.
To test the install, do the following tasks. If any task fails, follow the troubleshooting
suggestions below.
1. Double-click on webide.exe in the ais folder.  The Server Form window should appear with
no error messages.
2. Double-click on astartup.sl in the ais folder. AIS should start with a Server Form and a
Session Form.  The last 4 digits of the version number in the title bar at the top of the
Session Form should be the same as the 4 digits in the name of the latest release notes
in this folder.

 5.	Troubleshooting.
* Webide.exe fails on startup when I click on the webide.exe file in ais folder.
	1. Check the minimum install as described in Terms above.
	2. Reboot.
	3. Copy the error message and send it to IBA Customer Support (twilliams@byagent.com).
	4. Check the logs in the AISDIR/logs folder.

* Webide.exe starts up OK but clicking on astartup.sl in the ais directory fails.
	1. Check that ais/webide.exe is associated with the .SL extension as noted in section 3.
	2. Make sure astartup.sl is current.
	3. Undo any changes that you may have been made to ais/ais.ini.
	4. Search for any other copies of webide.exe in your file system and delete them.

* The .SL extension is not associated with ais/webide.exe.
	See section 3 above.

If none of these options help, please send an email to support@inscico.com.  See support.txt
for more information on submitting reports to us.

Updated: April 29, 2006 by tlw
